Being successful at our paid marketing is all about putting the right message,
in front of the right consumer,
at the right time, and for the right price.
When we talk about paid marketing channels,
we're typically talking about any channel where we exchange
money to promote our message to an audience,
and many of our organic channels can actually be upgraded to paid channels.
For example, I could post a video on YouTube for free,
but then I can pay to promote it,
and this holds true for many platforms such as Twitter and Facebook,
where you can also pay to promote your content or pay them to simply deliver
ads that are completely separate from
the content that you're publishing on your regular feed.
Additionally, we can also buy ads that live is text on search engines,
or display on blogs,
or even ads on streaming platforms like Spotify.
Additionally, we could exchange money to sponsor an event or
buy ads in traditional print publications such as magazines and newspapers.
Now, each time we launch a paid campaign,
we have to assess the important metrics.
For our time together, we're going to stick with the digital channels because these
are where you'll spend most of your time and they're also the easiest to track,
but you can always correlate these learnings to
the other areas of paid marketing that you may become involved in.
Let's look at all the pieces in motion and paid advertising so
we can evaluate how we'll begin to measure on these areas.
So to keep things super simple,
when we do paid advertising,
we're going to pay to gain access to
an audience with the goal that this audience buys our product.
So we're going to measure our spend, the audience,
where a message was served,
and any sales. Let's start with the message.
We're going to create our advertisement and then we'll put it somewhere.
It might live alongside a keyword on search.
So as people enter queries,
our ads show up if we're bidding on those terms
or through a placement on a particular website.
It's here that the audience then has a chance to see our message.
We call this the ad impression.
From here, they can choose to take an action such as a click.
Now, we may be paying just for the action when they click
or we might be paying every time our ad has an impression.
So the audience is now aware of our message and they have a chance to see this message,
and hopefully take an action such as a click,
and from there, we're going to hope that they make a purchase.
So within our paid channels,
we're primarily most concerned with the cost per impression,
the cost per click,
and the cost per customer acquisition.
But there are other metrics that help us establish the health of our campaigns,
and one such metric is your click-through rate.
The click-through is a step on the buyer's journey and it helps us to evaluate two areas.
Am I showing the right message,
and am I showing this message to the right audience?
Additionally, we also look at where these campaigns showed up,
and as we layer in more data,
we can compare outcomes.
So for example, we might see that we serve the same ad to multiple placements.
Now, some of these placements might perform better than others.
So while we have an aggregate number,
say an overall CPA for that campaign,
we may have CPAs that vary by each placement.
Think about the scale of many campaigns.
Consider a prominent websites such as Amazon.com.
They have all of these products.
So when they buy ads, what is their goal?
Well, they want to get traffic to those products.
So when they go out to their paid channels,
they have to figure out what makes the most sense.
So if they're going to buy paid search ads,
they're trying to figure out which keywords drive traffic to the right pages.
It won't make sense to serve the message of coffee mugs to people searching for jackets.
So Amazon has to work to optimize
their paid advertising to figure out which combinations deliver the best results.
They may have to figure out exactly what pairs of
words such as coffee mugs or coffee cups should
go to which product because it's hard to understand
which specific coffee mugs someone wants on a term that generic.
So they may evaluate all of
the different landing pages that they're serving on that message.
The message may be the same,
but the landing page may change.
So we have to start thinking about all of these layers that we
bake in when we understand what we're measuring.
Another piece is our customer lifetime value.
This makes the details that we're looking at incredibly important.
It might make more sense to capture insight surrounding lifetime value so that we can
sort out which placements and which audience segments yield the best results.
So we may find that we can improve
our lifetime value by delivering ads into one customer segment.
If that was the case, we might actually be willing to
increase our cost per clicks if at the same time,
we improve our customer lifetime value.
You see, all of this data works together,
but we're going to leverage it depending on what our goals are,
and then we use it to optimize and tell a story.
We can take a rather simplistic set of metrics and go deeper,
ultimately, creating a complex model by which we're working to optimize.
With paid, we're running these campaigns.
As we've seen, these campaigns are targeting messages to different customer segments.
But these customers can be reached at varying times of the day on different devices.
So they'll have different degrees of value to us.
Now, we have even more data points that we want to capture.
Let's say I was at restaurant and I'm serving lunch, who's more important to me?
Customer within four blocks at 11:30 in the morning just before
lunchtime or customers 30 miles away at 11 o'clock at night.
Of course the customer nearby is more important,
so I'm going to pay more.
Now, the customer far away might still be important if they're
searching for those lunch spots for tomorrow's business meeting.
But as you can see,
the insights that you gather with paid,
help you tell a higher-level story.
It's a general narrative about your overall performance,
but you're going to need to drill into all of
these deeper results to report on specific outcomes,
specific metrics that you can leverage to change the outcome.
As you continue to dig deeper,
you'll use the analytics to find areas for improvement.
Because well, as you know,
we're always wanting to be working towards information that lets us take action.
So let's take a quick second to recap where we are.
The most important data in paid is going to be what we're spending.
A cost-per-click, a cost per impression,
or that cost per acquisition,
then we have where we're showing up.
Its placement by the sites that were landing on or keywords that we're targeting.
Next, we're looking at how we're performing.
Our click-through rate, our conversion rates,
and then of course our customer lifetime value.
We then work to analyze all of these metrics and take action by making
our hypothesis on what we want to test and
what adjustments we want to make to see if we can deliver better results.